In this lesson, we'll talk about
two dominant systems developed for
large scale graph processing.
The first one, called Giraph,
is from Apache and
implements a BSP model on Hadoop.
The second system is called Graphx,
is developed on the Spark platform,
which as you know, emphasizes on
interactive in memory computations.
While BSP is a popular
graph processing model,
the actual implementation of
BSP in an infrastructure needs
additional programmability beyond
what we have discussed so far.
In Giraph, several additional capabilities
are added to make it more practical.
A thorough coverage of the Giraph platform
is beyond the scoop of these lectures.
However, we'll touch upon
a few of these capabilities.
We'll first consider graph IO,
that is how graphs can come into a system
represented inside the system, and
when completed are written out.
Next, we'll describe how Giraph
interacts with external data sources.
Some of these data sources
use a different data model,
other sources include databases.
Once a graph is imported,
it is important to make sure that
the system runs efficiently.
We will look at a method that uses a
special kind of global aggregate operation
which saves time by reducing
the amount of messaging
to compute aggregate functions
like sum and products.
Finally, we'll recognize that
even if Giraph is designed for
performing iterative,
in memory computation,
there are times where it is absolutely
necessary to store data on disk.
We'll briefly touch upon Giraph's
ability to handle out of core graphs and
out of core messages.
A graph can be written in many ways.
For Neo4J, we saw how graphs can be
important to the database from a CSV file.
In Giraph, two of the most common input
formats are Adjacency List and Edge List.
For an Adjacency List,
each line has the node ID, a node value
which is a single number here, and
a list of destination, weight pairs.
Thus, in line one,
A has a value of 10 and 2 neighbors B and
F with edge weights 2 and 5, respectively.
Since G has no outgoing edge,
the adjacency list is empty.
The current way of representing
graphs is in terms of triplets.
Containing the source and destination
nodes followed by an [INAUDIBLE].
Notice the way we have shown it here.
And the node values is not represented.
Let us simplify the Adjacency List
representation of it.
We remove the colons, commas, braces, and
parenthesis, and
get a space separated set of lines.
One line for each vertex.
We further replace the node IDs A,
B, C, etc., with 1, 2, 3, etc.,
so that these IDs are integers.
So what do we need to specify
to parse this for Giraph?
One, the graph is a text subject and
not, let's say, a database subject.
Two, it is a vertex based representation,
each line is a vertex.
This splitter here is a space.
The idea of the node is a first value for
each line.
The value is a second token.
The next pair of items you find an edge
with the target and the weight,
respectively.
And lastly, there is a list of these
pairs until the end of the line.
Therefore, each line would typically
lead to the creation of both notes and
a set of edges.
This shows a typical reader formula
decency matrix written in Java.
Again, you don't have to know Java
to get the elements of this program.
Our reader is clearly customized for
your specific input.
Very often the starting point is
a basic reader provided by Giraph.
Like the reader that knows how to read
vertices from each line of a text swipe.
To customize it, you extend it and
create your own version.
Now, you need to define
how to get the ID and
value of the vertex by writing
separate message for them.
Notice that the ID comes from
the zeroth item of each line after
the split by white space, and
the value comes from the next open,
the second term, marked by 1 for
the 0 base of the light.
The next code element is this block here.
This specifies how to create edges
by iterating through every line.
To keep the short, we'll remove
the part that gets the edges here.
As Giraph as mature it has
included many specialized
to interoperate with compatible resources.
This diagram is from Giraph where
the show some of these sources.
We can group them into
three different categories.
Group one interoperates with Hive and
HBase.
You possibly remember these
systems from a prior course.
These systems are designed to give
a higher level of data access on
interface on top of MapReduce.
Group two accesses relational
systems like MySQL and Cassandra.
But these systems have accessed indirectly
through a software module called Gora.
Gora uses a JSON schema to map
the relation schema of the SQL database
to a structure that Giraph can read.
Group three accesses graph
databases like Neo4J and DEX,
which is now called Sparksee.
These systems are all taxes indirectly.
Using the [INAUDIBLE]
service of Tinkerpop.
Which is a graph API layer that can use
many different Giraph stores including
[INAUDIBLE] graph and Titan.
Consider a relational
table stored in Hive.
The table shown here is extracted
from the bio grid data source that
we mentioned in module two.
Each row of the table represents
a molecule interaction.
We can create a network from here just
by considering the first two columns.
The first column represents the source
node of an edge colored red.
And the second column represents
the target node of the edge colored blue.
The label on the edge comes from
the fifth column of the table
which is a black bold font.
Let's assume that these predict items,
these are items that we want to
pick up from the Hive table.
The simplest way to get a record from hive
to Giraph is to extend the class
called SimpleHiveRowToEdge.
For this class, we need to specify
the source node, the target node, and
the edge value using three
methods as shown here.
My extension is called MyHiveRowToEdge.
It shows the implementation of these
methods where we just pick up the first,
second, and fifth columns,
as we described before.
Now, as mentioned before,
Giraph interacts with Neo4J through
the Gremlin API provided by Tinkerpop.
One can think of Gremlin as
a traversal API, which means,
it allows one to start from some node and
walk the graph step by step.
To show this,
consider disease gene graph on the right.
Let's call this graph G.
So g.V represents all the vertices of G.
Therefore g.V has name
MC4R selects the node that
has a property called
name whose value is MC4R.
Let's add to this path the condition .out,
which chooses the out
edges of the MC4R node and
then traverses the associatedWith edge
to the orange node called obesity.
For this call, returns the vertex only.
Now, adding the path to values
means gives us obesity.
We can also expand differently
from the obesity node.
When we say inV() we refer
to all nodes that have
incoming edges to the current node.
In this case, there is only one.
The LEPR node.
To this, we add the traversal out beam and
thus we get back the out going edge from
the LEPR node highlighted in together.
We can also look at the Giraph Gremlin
near project connection
from Tinkerpop's viewpoint.
Tinkerpop is trying to create
a standard language for graph reversal,
just like Neo4J is trying to create Open
Cypher as a standard query language for
graph databases.
In trying to create the standard,
Tinkerpop recognizes that the actual
storage management for graph databases
should be provided by another vendor.
The vendor needs to implement
the Gremlin API for access.
Similarly for graphic processing,
including expensive analytic operations
should be performed by what
they call a graph computer.
This is the role played by
Giraph as well as Spark.
Both of which interface with Tinkerpop.